hi I'm Karen and this is the learning
circuit where we learn about basic
electronics diving into electronics for
the first time can be daunting I'm going
to show you how to make a basic circuit
out of common materials and components
to help get you started before we make a
circuit let's talk about what a circuit
is a circuit is a closed path through
which an electric current can flow a
circuit can be closed or open if the
circuit is closed all of the components
are connected and the electrical current
can flow if the circuit is open then a
connection is broken and the electrical
current cannot flow we use circuits to
send energy to turn things on like the
motor in this drill or the bulb in this
flashlight a lot of things we use every
day contains circuits and circuit boards
here's an example of a circuit board it
contains lots of little circuits that
each have their own individual function
for example one circuit might turn on
this motor another circuit might make
this buzzer beep but not all circuits
have to be this complicated we can make
a simple circuit out of just a light
bulb a power source and some wires let's
look at the materials we'll need to make
this circuit you'll want some cardboard
some paper clips some paper fasteners a
battery some tape and a light it would
also be useful if you have a pair of
needlenose pliers
and a utility knife circuits typically
use wires and circuit traces to send
electricity and signals along the
circuit today we're going to be using
the paper clips and the paper fasteners
in place of wires now it's important to
make sure that these items are metal and
don't have any coating we need them to
be conductive so that electricity flows
through them wherever they touch for
this project we'll use a battery as the
power source batteries have a positive
and a negative terminal some components
only work in one direction so it's
important to note which orientation your
battery is being hooked up this battery
supplies 1.5 volts of power when
choosing our light we want to make sure
that we choose one that is rated for low
voltage if the lights rated for 2 to 3
volts it should still work with one
battery ok let's make a circuit first
I'm going to tape down my battery now
I'm going to add a paper clip to either
side to act as the wires to conduct the
electricity as well as acting as clips
to help hold the battery in place I'll
use a pair of needlenose pliers to bend
it in half then put it right against the
battery and push a fastener right at the
other end to help hold it snugly in
place next we're gonna add our light now
the length of the paper clips is going
to determine where this is going to go
and if you need to you can add extra
paper clips and fasteners to make sure
that it reaches I'm gonna make a loop of
tape to put on the bottom of my light
just stick it down to the cardboard now
I want to make sure that the screws of
the light are facing out towards my
paper clips so that it's easy to reach
my last paper clips I'm gonna loop
around the screws of the light socket
and then try to connect the ends over to
my other paper clips and then secure
them with a fastener remember you want
to make sure that you're using the
fasteners to pull the paper clips tight
so that you have a nice secure
connection alright we've made a circuit
if you have everything hooked up
correctly your light should be on if
your lights not on here's some places
you can look for troubleshooting check
all of your connections make sure that
metal stays touching metal when not
being held if not bend it more or try
adding some tape make sure you're using
a fresh battery my favorite test to see
if a batteries good or not is to drop it
and first on a hard surface if the
battery bounces the inside is dry and
the battery's probably dead if it
doesn't bounce it should still have some
power it's not the most accurate method
but it's a quick test you can do that
doesn't require a multimeter or a
battery tester if your circuit still
doesn't work take a look at the bulb
inside the bulb is a filament if the
filament is broken that turns it into an
open circuit because electricity cannot
flow across it replace the bulb with one
where the filament is intact lastly you
need to make sure that your light bulb
is screwed all the way in there needs to
be a way for electricity to flow into
and out of the light bulb one of those
points is the threads on the screw the
other point is the bottom of the light
bulb both of those points have to be
touching the socket for electricity to
be able to flow through the light bulb
for this project I prefer to use
incandescent bulbs because they're less
sensitive to voltages if this light bulb
is rated for 3 volts it will still turn
on and glow at a lower voltage and
can handle higher voltages before
burning out if you'd like to use LEDs
for this project instead there are some
things you need to know first LEDs come
in different sizes here is a three
millimeter a five millimeter and a ten
millimeter LED LEDs are more sensitive
to voltages than incandescent bulbs
another difference is that with
incandescent bulbs orientation in the
circuit doesn't matter LED stands for
light emitting diode a diode is an
electrical component that only lets
electricity flow through it in one
direction an LED will not work if it is
hooked up backwards you can identify the
negative side of an LED a few different
ways sometimes the negative side is flat
like on this five millimeter LED usually
the negative lead is shorter and lastly
if you look inside the LED the larger
side is the negative side let's get back
to the circuit I want to add one more
thing a switch but the good news is you
don't actually have to add anything to
the circuit if there is a break in the
circle the circuit becomes open and the
light turns off when we do this on
purpose we create a switch in our
circuit you can loosen one of the paper
clips so it just touches the top of the
fastener then it can swivel and easily
open and close to become a switch
opening and closing the circuit
you might notice on other switches that
there's a line on one side and a circle
on the other that represents a closed or
open circuit when the switch is
positioned to the o side that represents
an open circuit and it's off when we
position the switch to the line side
that represents a closed circuit and the
switch is on I hope that helps you
understand open and close circuits and
how switches work within them after
you've made your own cardboard circuits
tell us about it did you have any
problems did you discover something new
did you figure out a better way to make
them post your comments questions and
stories on the element14 community on
element14.com /the learning circuit I'll
see you next time
[Music]